Morning, Welcome to the NGD 104. So for the quiz tool, I'm still marking it, not finished but I predict in two days.
2 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
I will complete all of them. So it's not completed yet. And, so this is some I have marked, but the rest I, I am in the process.
3 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So, quiz two has a full max of 1515, full max of 15, and, the midterms previously.
4 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
As a full marks of 25, and quiz one, has a full mark of 20. So far for the, for the lecture quizzes.
5 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
This is, this is going to be updated soon when as with the time goes so each each letter quiz has a full marks of ten. For the take form quizzes.
6 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Each take home quiz will have a full max of them. So, but it at the end best off that is not all will be taken. I will take the best offs.
7 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
I think can't remember, maybe best of six or best of lecture quiz is best of three, at the end, ok? And, so, this is.
8 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The midterm and quiz two will be updated soon, ok? Some of you, these are the teachers, these are the teachers for the, for the tutorial and the laboratories.
9 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So some of you did not update, and as a result, non attendance letter has been issued. So please update if you are attending, different.
10 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Different slots, we will we do not know that you have attended so please update to us which which tutorial slot and which laboratory slot. AS.
11 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Is dr. Akansha Singh. S S is and AE is Dr. holly. EB Isco.
12 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
MG is dr. Mary George and H A is Abhiba. So in here, this is the student's ID and this is the tutorial.
13 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
E.g., this student, the tutor is Sana Sahil and the lab for this student Iscoo. So if, if you have if you attempt.
14 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
A different theater or a different lab, please update us to avoid getting a non attendance letters ok so today we are going to continue with our.
15 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Lecture, our lecture nine-ten, where we stopped on Saturday order response resistance order response resistance. So on Saturday we.
16 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
We said that from on Saturday onwards, we are going to have a source which is sinosoidle. So in the 1st seven weeks, this source is fixed. So if this is 10 v.
17 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Or this means this is 10 v. But now from now onwards, it will be 10 v but sinusidal. It is some value with sinusidal.
18 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So in the, in the 1st seven weeks, we know that our own slow is om slove is our I equals to.
19 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
V over R So V here is 10 v 10 v in this example, in this example. So the same the same principle will be applied. The old law is still valid.
20 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The only issue is the, the voltage is sinosoidle, sinosidal. So we could not could not just write ten votes, we must write something Sinosoidle means multiply by sign omega T.
21 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And the other thing that we learned on Saturday is to differentiate between, direct current, this is DC, and AC. AC we write capital I.
22 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Everything is capital like V, I capital, but here is AC we write a small letter, small letter small letter I and small letter V.
23 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Small letter V So this means that the small letter V is indicating that this is sinocidal VM is the peak, the peak voltage multiplied by side omega team.
24 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So the old law is still valid for Ac's AC situation. So VMOR is I M, I pick, I pick, sign omegative.
25 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So, so what we can see here is, we, the voltage is VM signed omega T And the current I is I M signed Omega T.
26 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Therefore, there is NO NO face, e.g. NO plus 90 or -90 degrees, so there is NO NO face, NO face difference. So we can say that.
27 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
In in AC for if the circuit only consists of register, the voltage and the current are in phase. This means plus zero. They are they they have.
28 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Zero zero face difference, so if this is voltage, this will be, current. They are.
29 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
They are in the same phase. They are NO face difference. So we learned on Saturday that if it's face difference, e.g., if this is voltage and.
30 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The current might be here, or the current, the current might be leading or the current might be lagging. So this case.
31 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
There is a face difference, but in, in the case of pure register circuit, NO inductor and NO capacity in the circuit, so we have we can say that the current and the voltage are in face, in phase.
32 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So they are in face, the, the current and the voltage are in face. So then let's see an interesting situation here where we have, the voltage or this is a symbol for.
33 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
AC ordal and an inductor. So this circuit is purely inductor, ok? Purely inductor. So how can, how can we check whether, how can we prove that whether there is the current is.
34 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
In face of some face difference compared to voltage when the circuit consists of an inductor, ok? So we have learned in onslaugh, in omslaw, that if it is current, if it is a register.
35 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
What Vehicles too.
36 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
IR. This is well known to you, but these are this is register. This is applicable to register. How about an inductor? So obviously we cannot use V V equals IR. We are going to use.
37 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
V equals L L is the inductors DI, by DT. So we have learned in the past two weeks that for this law and when we learn the law.
38 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The induced voltage across the inductor is equals to LDI by DT. So this equation is valid for inductor. You can say that when there is an inductor, we shouldn't obviously we should not use V equals to IR because it's.
39 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
We don't have art?
40 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So we have to use V equals to L DI by DT, ok? So, so we can now, do the steps, we can now do the steps, so if V equals to L.
41 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
DI by DT, and let's say from now onwards because everything is sinosoidle, right? E.g., in the resistor, I equals to something, the magnitude.
42 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The peak multiply sign. V equals to magnitude V multiply by sign sinusoidol. So we should not just say V equals to 10 v. So it's not.
43 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Fully correct because the sinus order means the amplitude or the peak plot are multiply by the sign. So we cannot just say I equals to one MPL. So that is not fully correct.
44 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
That was correct when it was a direct current or DC in the 1st six or seven weeks, ok? In the 1st six or seven weeks. So now when we see current, when we see current, so we.
45 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
We write in terms of because it's changing sinosoidily, so current is I pick the the peak of the sign sign Wave has a peak, right? So I am a sign omega T. This is.
46 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
I equals to I M side omegative, but we want a DI by dt. So we differentiate I This means if I is this, what is the differentiation, the DI by DT of this?
47 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
What is the DI idity of sign? What is the derivative of sign? Or sign. Yes, because that is inside the, there is that a factor here. So the derivative of sign is sign off.
48 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Is Omega costs Omega team so but of course I M is the constant, so I am Omega costs Omega team and we like to, in the previous weeks on Saturday, we like to.
49 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Compare Apple to apple. When you want to, when you want to, when we want, when we want to compare whether this is like the face is different, how much we like to use sign. So if we, if we have co signed.
50 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And then the voltage is signed so it's confusing. So now we have the high variety in terms of cosign.
51 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So, last week we learned that cosign is leading sorry cosign is leading the sign by 90 degrees, ok? So I just draw it again for you to remind, to remember.
52 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Now if this is a sign and and obviously co sign looks like this, but if we extend it, extend it.
53 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So this means the co sign arrived 1st at the x axis to the left compared to the sign and this, the difference is 90 degrees. So if we have, if you want to convert.
54 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
This mean co sign cosign is leading the sign by 90 degrees so we can write the co sign as a signed sign if it's, is omega T.
55 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So sign omegative plus 90 because so for sign omegative is it is equivalent to sign omegative plus 90 Y plus 90 because.
56 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The co sign leads the sign by 90 degrees. So this can be expressed in here. So, the is I M Omega signed omega T plus 90 degrees.
57 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So this one, make it neater and take this one and therefore.
58 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Okay.
59 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So V V is now I'm rewriting it V, L So D I by DT is I M, Omega.
60 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Assigned omegative plus 90 degrees. So just like I found, we found that the now we can write the the full, the full expression of, of the voltage, the voltage.
61 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And so now that's why this is like approving. We have proof that this is the steps. These are the steps, ok. And.
62 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And so these three this like outside factors we can we can it's like, the magnitude or the big magnitude of V.
63 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Because we know that when we say V small V is a big magnitude of some some suns order, some suns order.
64 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And when we write I, we have the magnitude of the current some multiply with some soil terms. So here if we can see V equals to omega, Li I M can be grouped together.
65 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
To be written as, the big magnitude of V VM. So if we write, if we write everything side by side or top and top and return to compare.
66 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So I now rewrite the OV is capital VM is the magnitude of V The big magnitude of V is signed multiplied by sign omega D.
67 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Plus 90 degrees. And if we rewrite the eye just now, the eye, the eye, is the peak magnitude of current.
68 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
A Signed omega T, so previously for the purely resistance circuit, I wrote it top and bottom so that we can compare and there is signed omegative at the voltage and signed omegative at the.
69 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Current so there is, they are both in phase. So in a inductor system circuit, so sign omega T plus 90 and sign omegaty. So we have proven that for an inductor's circuit.
70 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Which leads which? The the current lacks, the voltage, because here the voltage leads the current, right? Because here plus so I I.
71 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Please make it here. Yes, yes.
72 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So we have converted the the co sign to become signed because what now we want to compare everything in sign, right? So just now when we, we say that I because I am signedy, so I read here.
73 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And now we have found that V is VM side omega T plus 90. So here, this means V has V has 90 degrees leading, ok?
74 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So that this red red color is V plus 90 degrees, so it's a bit earlier, it's a bit it crossed the X axis 90 degrees earlier than the green.
75 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The green is, just I am signed omega T Okay, so 1st we convert 1st the reason why convert because we want to compare the same the same parameter we want to compare sign and sign so it's easier, easier to compare. So now plus 90 degrees indicates.
76 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And this is S plus zero or the benchmark, and this shows that the voltage leads the current by 90 degrees for a inductor 2nd for the inductor 2nd. So that's the new things for this morning, and you can write.
77 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And in the foreign inductor the current lacks, the voltage by 90 degrees or you can write the foreign inductor the voltage leads the current by 90 degrees. But.
78 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
We like to, in terms of wording or statement, we like to write the current 1st so that it's not, I mean, so that it's ingrained in our mind.
79 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Later we will see for a capacitor, the current, so we start with the current the current the current for inductor the current lacks, the voltage by 90 degrees. For a resistor, the current and the voltage are in face.
80 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
For inductor the current lacks, the voltage by 90 degrees. So in the future you do not need to prove again, we have, you have already proven here. So you, you can use this knowledge for for your circuit circuit calculation or circuit analysis.
81 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Okay, any questions? So this means the voltage is the black and the current is the blue curve.
82 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And the black curve across the X axis earlier on the compared to the blue curve. This shows that the voltage is leading the current by 90 degrees for a pure inductor circuit.
83 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
For the pure inductor circuit. So how about a capacitor, a capacitor? So, so a pure capacitor circuit, we, we will.
84 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
If for current owner for register is B equals to IR, and for an inductor, we use V equals to L, DI by DT.
85 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
For a capacitor I is equals to C DB by DT. So, this means.
86 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
If we use this in our analysis, we know that voltage is peak voltage multiply by now we always work in sinosoidle, so you multiply bye.
87 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So but the equation says DV by DT, so we do the derivative and again I think you agree the same thing like last time derivative of signed omegative is omega plus omegative and.
88 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Again, we convert, convert because we at the end we like to work with sign, right? At the end, we I mean in our analysis we like to work with sign. So costs omega T.
89 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Can be written as signed omegative plus 90 because cost signed is leading the sign by 90 degrees, so cost omegative equals to sign omegative plus 90 degrees. And as usual.
90 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
As previously, so now we come back to here, so I is I C is C So D v YDDT.
91 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Is VM, Omega signed omega T plus 90. So this, these are green, this, this can be grouped as a green box here. We can write it as.
92 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
IM or peak current peak many current, so sign omega T plus 90, therefore, if we write both of them close together very close together so to see the comparison.
93 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So V equals to VM, assign omega T And I equals to, I M So this I, I equals to I M.
94 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
A Sign, omega T plus 90 dbs. So if we compare.
95 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The top and the bottom, we can say that the current is leading the voltage by 90 degrees. The current is leading the voltage by 90 degrees.
96 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So in other words, in a capacitor for a capacitor, the current leads the voltage by 90 degrees. The current leads the voltage by 90 degrees. For an inductor.
97 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The current lacks, the voltage by 90 degrees. For a resistor circuit, the current and the voltage are in face, are in face. So one more thing.
98 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
In the green box, we group them together. We will call this when we, when we have, so I will write here.
99 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
R is VI, right? V over I, on slot for for a register circuit fully registered 2nd, right? So, in a capacitor.
100 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
We, of course there is NO R, we cannot use R, so we can defined, we can write what we call the, X C.
101 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And this is called, because see it's capacitive, this is called capacity reactions capacitive reactants, and we we can write v pick.
102 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Over IP. This capacitive reactants still we use the same principle as the own flaw. We pick over IP, IP amplitudes.
103 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So if, so we pick, so we pick is a VM, so this I M.
104 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
We have grouped all of this in a green box, so I M I pick is omega, C B M So, this, this becomes.
105 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
One over Omega C So XC, we define now we learn a new a new terminology because this we cannot use R or R is resistance.
106 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So if we want to find what the equivalent to resistance, this is called capacity inductance and it is one over omegacy. So if R is Homes, the unit is in omes.
107 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
This unit is in oms, in oms because we want to obey the in oms law. So this unit is in oms and it's different from C.
108 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
C, the unit is in forux, C is in forux and XC The unit is in oms.
109 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Okay, so any questions? So that just to see why why do I have that because we cannot use R equals to VI, there is NO res There is NO register but we define what we call XC or capacity inductance.
110 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So if we go back to our our inductor circuit, so coming backlog R is V over I, but we cannot use this because there is NO resistance. So we defined.
111 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Capacity inductive reactants. We call it inductive reactants, so it is the peak V over the peak eye, the peak V over the peak eye.
112 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And the pick, the peak V is everything in the red box, everything in the red box is omega, L, I M, and the I M.
113 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Is just the IM, so this cancel and this so the inductive reactants is omega L So you do not need to prove from now onwards?
114 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
From now onwards, you can just write, register is registered register is registered and the unit is in oms.
115 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Capacity inductance is a one over omega C and the unit is owns Inductive reactants is Omega L.
116 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And the unit is in both. And what you learned today for a inductor, and the inductor is, Henry's unit is in Henry's.
117 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The capacitor, the unit is being for us, if we have a pure pure register, pure register, please.
118 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Current is in face, in face with voltage, current.
119 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Current interface with voltage. If we have, pure, pure inductor.
120 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Current lax voltage by 90 degrees. And the next summary is.
121 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
If we have a pure capacity and the answer is the current leads.
122 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The voltage by 90 degrees. Some important parameters cosine leads designed by 90 degrees, so cosigned omega T.
123 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Is equals to sign omega T plus 90. So these are, I hope you will remember from now onwards.
124 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
These are very important or useful to be applied from now onwards. And we like to work in sign. So if you see any cosign convert to sign and then only compare. Then comparing sign and sign.
125 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
It's very good cost cosign and comparing costs cost and sign are very confusing, very confusing. So here in this graph, the current is.
126 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Across the x axis 1st compared to the voltage, so current leads leads the voltage by 90 degrees. So now from now onwards, we.
127 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
We are we thinking in sinosoidle. The current through 5 ω register is I equals to 40 signed 3770 plus 30 degrees MPI. So remember.
128 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Sign, this is the format sign omega T plus plus something. So always it can be zero or 90 to show the face, but it always have in mind so.
129 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Sign omega T Sign omega T So it's not mentioned Omega, but this is omega. The question say it doesn't mention Omega is 377, but you have to derive from here, ok, Sign Omega T.
130 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Sign omega T So, in you know ok Omega must be 377, ok? So if, so register is quite quite nice because V equals to IR, V equals to IR.
131 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And, previously I forgot write one more thing. So B equals to I R, B equals to, for the inductor B equals to L.
132 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
DI by DT, and for our capacitor I equals to C, DV by DT. Everything in this page is summarized.
133 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
In this page, everything, the important things are already summarized. You can see here, these are all the important things. The fundamental things from now onwards if you understand and you memorize.
134 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
You will be able to, to do all any questions after this. We can solve any questions. So here we can, we were, we have the current, we were asked to find the voltage and it is a registered.
135 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So register is quite easy, we pick equals I M R So 40 M The I M is IPC, so we take 40 MPS for this is IM, the IP.
136 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And the resistor is five oms, five homes. So this means VM find the expression of voltage. VM is 200 v, but these 200 v is the peak, so because.
137 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
We work in cynosoidle, sinosoidle or AC, so the final answer V is the peak, this is VM, 200 sign omegaty plus 30. Can I ask you.
138 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Why I write here plus 30? Why why not I just write sign 30 3770 and full stop? Yes yes. So this theory states.
139 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
They, for a pure resistor circuit I is in face with B So if this is 30 degrees, so now I write it side top and bottom, so if this is.
140 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
40 signed so I write Omega Omega T plus 30. So the final answer for V is the 200 is the VM. So now you have to decide.
141 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The Omega team must be there, but you have to decide on this. So be since it's a purely resistored circuit, the the current and the voltage are in phase.
142 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So to be in face, you write 30 degrees. This mean they are in the same, so this here the a bit here, this is 30 degrees and.
143 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The other one also is here, 30 degrees, they are in face. They are they are in the same phase. The amplitude is not important.
144 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The amplitude of current is lower but so my drawing is not I'm not emphasizing on the amplitude. I'm just focusing on the face, ok, on the face. So now.
145 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Some interesting thing because now it's normal resistor, it's normal resistor. Now it is, inductor coil is an inductor, ok? So can I ask you before we continue, did you remember?
146 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
For an inductor, current is, current is leading the voltage or current is lagging the voltage. If you still remember. Yes.
147 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Current legs, yeah, current lagging the voltage. So, for tips and strategy, start with current. In your mind, current leads or legs Cause if you start to s.
148 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
To try to to set voltage leads or legs, so you might be confused. So from now onwards, current, current, so for in, for the inductor current legs, the voltage poor capacitor current leads.
149 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The voltage. So in this case, you know that this coil inductor so current must lack the voltage. Later we will adjust the, this, this degree, this lagging in the, at the end, ok?
150 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So if the current is this one, the current is ten signed 3770 and again immediately you know signed, this is signed Omega T just so keep.
151 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Keep in track signed Omega T Omega is 377 and and XL, so one of the important parameters here is XL.
152 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So this small mistake here, this XXC, so XC. So XL is Omega L So XL is Omega L So Omega, immediately we know it's 377.
153 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
L is, is 0.1 Henry's, so immediately XL is 3737 .7 oms. Okay, so.
154 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So we know that VM is I M XL, so Rememberslo V equals to I R, but there is NO R here, we cannot use it, so.
155 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
V, for the case of inductor, for the case of inductor V equals I.
156 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
But this is x XL XL. So we have obtained XLS 37.
157 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The 37 point, 37.7, and the current is ten, so the peak peak.
158 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The big, big. So the VM peak is 377. So now our our question find us find a voltage. So this is the voltage.
159 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
We know the amplitude is 377, the peak. So now we have to write signs or omega T So you have already answered that the current in inductor system, the current, again, the current is.
160 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Lacks, legs. So, if the current is signed omegative, this means the voltage must be signed omegative plus 90. This, to make it current is lagging.
161 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The voltage by 90 degrees. So current lacks, so you see here, here's omega T plus zero. So voltage is leading by 90 degrees or current is lagging.
162 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So we we must write here plus 90. So I hope you can see the logic. I mean the fundamental here is understood and you can answer any.
163 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The questions regarding inductor or question or resistors in sanosoidle So now, it's an interesting question here. We it's still a coin, it's still an inductor.
164 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Correct so call inductor, current lacks the voltage. Current lacks the voltage by 90 degrees, ok? So our objective is to find the voltage, the voltage.
165 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Across each, ok? So the current is given as seven signed 3770. So Omega, Omega T -70, Omega T -70.
166 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The same process, we in order to get the peak voltage is I M XL, so I M is 7M7 MPS and XL what is XL if you remember?
167 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Yes yes. XL is, omega, Omega L So I just write all for your for your memory x C is one over Omega C.
168 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Unit is in owns unit is in owns. So here we one XL, so Omega is 377, and the coil or the inductor is 0.1 Henry.
169 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So it is 03:37 .7. So we get 263 .9. So can I know, in, in dr. current is a lagging the voltage. If the current is.
170 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
-70 -70. What you think would be the voltage? The voltage, the amplitude is 26349, nine?
171 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Sign, always three seven set omega T Now your decision is how much plus or minus some some data here.
172 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So Karan lacks the voltage by 90 degrees, ok? So with that, I will start with, it's in the lecture folders.
173 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
In in class quiz lecture nine, Wednesday, in class quiz lecture nine Wednesday, Wednesday, five June.
174 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
20 2024. So the 1st one is 200 s because you want to start up the quiz, it takes, maybe it takes a long time.
175 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
For the starting up, same like me, there is an issue that is still initializing, ok? So wait while waiting.
176 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So, I want you to decide plus or minus something plus or minus something, keeping in mind foreign end of the current legs, the voltage by.
177 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
90 degrees ok this one.
178 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
For the voltage, what will be the voltage value? Keeping in mind, the current is lagging the voltage by 90 degrees.
179 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Super, it just.
180 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Okay, start, so this you can key in the answer.
181 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So this is the question, because we are asked to find the voltage. So can I see whether the the Now I'm talking about voltage voltage.
182 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
If current is lagging voltage is leading. If current is leading voltage is lagging. So lagging means.
183 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
At minus right? Minus nine, the lagging means minus something minus. Bleeding means plus plus. So very good. I see all the correct answers at the moment.
184 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And, 43 students are in this room. 43 students are attending this lecture, but unfortunately one got the wrong answer, please try in the next, ok?
185 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So we have 48 students enrolled, 48 students in this room, and almost all got the right answer except for one student.
186 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And 13 eight students still yet to answer, to give to write their answers. So we have 49 students attending this lecture today, 49 students.
187 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So another student got it wrong, two students got it wrong, but majority got it right, ok? Majority got it right. So the answer is So we it's right here.
188 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
-70, but because the voltage is leading or you can say the current is lagging the voltage by 90 degrees, so the voltage is leading the current by 90 degrees leading means.
189 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Plus leading means plus 90 degrees. So that is the answer, that is the answer and 52 students enrolled and only.
190 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Three wrong wrong answers, ok? Only three wrong answers. So that's a good good participation. So now we we have an example here where this is a capacitor.
191 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
It's not an inductor, it's not a resistor, so, so a totally capacitor, so a capacitor current is leading the voltage or current is lagging for a capacitor system.
192 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Current is leading the voltage by 90 degrees. So if we were given the voltage, 30 signed 400 T signed omega tea, what is the current? What is the current?
193 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So in order to find the magnitude, X XC is one over omega C To find the magnitude previously for XL, previously not here, is Omega L.
194 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So the magnitude, is important but not as important as the face. The the face is, to show your understanding, but the magnitude is just a statement to write it here. So one over Omega C.
195 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Omega T signed omega T So omega must be 400. C is one microphox, one times ten to minus six, so XC capacity reactants to 2000.
196 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
500 olds. And we were asked to find the expression for the current so we get the magnitude of the current 1st I M.
197 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
His VM over XC, again, I am His VM over art, I am.
198 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
VM, over XC, and I am VM, over XM.
199 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Okay, oh slow.
200 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So here, it's 0.012 MPS or 12 million MPS, which will be the final expression is the I is the I M.
201 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
I equals to I M signed omega T, plus 90 because in a capacitor current.
202 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Leads voltage by 90 degrees. So if this is the voltage sign or negative, so in the current sign or negative plus.
203 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
9090, ok? So in this case, the current leaves the voltage by 90 degrees. So here we can.
204 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Do, so even we if we have the answer for VNI, can I know by looking at this, is this a fully registered fully inducted or fully capacity part A?
205 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Fully resistant. For part B, by looking at VNI, is it a fully inductor, fully in capacity or fully resisted? Inductor? Because inductor is current.
206 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The lacks, the voltage by 90 degrees. Here it's -80 and here is plus ten. So it's the current is lagging the voltage by 90 degrees. How about this one?
207 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Capacity, yeah? Because the current is leading the voltage by 90 degrees. So the last part is interesting, that's why when we see a co sign and sign.
208 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
We like to work in sign to compare it. So when we have cosigned we convert it to signs. So cosigned omegative plus 20, consigned leads the sign by 90 degrees, so it's equal to signed.
209 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Omega T plus 110. So if we compare with the current, what is this, what is this circuit, resistance, ok?
210 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Resistance. So there are, when we come convert to sign we can see that they are in face, so omega T plus 1101110, and for the for the current.
211 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
For the current, it's also, omega T plus 1110. So this must be fully registered 2nd. This must be fully registered 2nd.
212 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So this what we have done just now, is the face, but if you want to find the amplitude, you perform the own slaw, so, for the fully resistor.
213 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
R is B over I for the fully inductor XL is VM over I M, VM.
214 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Over I am and for a fully induct this is the fully inductor and for the fully capacitor XC is VM.
215 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Over I M or you can use XC is one over Omega C, one over Omega C So even from from there you can, if you know, XC capacity is 500 oms, you can.
216 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
A retrieve or you can get the value of C from here, it's 12.74 fourths. So I hope this now you can.
217 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And now you can see, you understand the fundamental and you can solve any circuit problems, simosoidle circuit problems.
218 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And because, XL is Omega L because if there is NO L or C resistor is always a resistant.
219 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
But if there is a fully inducted, obviously we don't call R, we call it this is oms. We call it XL, Inductive reactions. So what's interesting here?
220 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
It will, the olds will change at a low frequency because Omega is two by F is always two by five F we learned in the past two weeks. So at the low frequency.
221 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
XL is almost a very low or even 0FF equals to zero, zero frequency, XL is zero, but as we increase the frequency.
222 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
10 hz or 1 khz 5 khz 10 khz. So the inductive reactions will increase. So it's different from register. Resistor is always resistor.
223 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
It does not, it depends on the frequency. This means ten kilomes or hundred kilomes or hundred hertz, sorry, hundred hertz, 10 khz because the equation does not have omega. But for the inductor.
224 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The oms or the XL will change whether you use a low frequency or high frequency, the omega will increase appropriately, ok? So.
225 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
That's why when we learned, you remember when we switched when we have a switch, when we have a switch last time, in the past two or three weeks, in the beginning.
226 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The inductor appears as a short circuit and after a long time, it appeared as an open circuit. So now it makes sense. It makes logical because.
227 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
In the beginning, the frequency is zero in the, but after a long time it is a high frequency and that's why it is open 2nd.
228 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Okay thank you for your thank you that was for DC, ok? That was for DC. So now for the AC it's changing. It's the opposite, ok?
229 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Well, because last week it was for DC, so it is the other way around, but we are talking about AC circuit now, AC.
230 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So if we have an AC 2nd depends on the omega, the frequency, low frequency or high frequency, so we can have a different value of XL and.
231 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
In the low frequency or zero, it acts like a short circuit opposite to the DC last two weeks and for the high frequency it acts like a open 2nd. And for the capacitor since, so again, just rewrite.
232 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
That, if R is equals to R, XL is omega L, and the passive reaction is one over Omega C.
233 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So this time the Omega is at the denominator. Omega is two by FC. So at the low frequency, very, very low.
234 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
It is infinity, infinity or very high XC. As the frequency increases, increases, increases, so the the frequency is large, getting larger, larger and larger. XC is getting lower, lower and lower.
235 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So this means at the low frequency capacitor in the AC circuit is an open circuit and at a high frequency, the capacitor can be considered as a short circuit for a AC circuit for an AC.
236 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
C system. So I, let us take 5 min breaks and we will continue with our new topic, a new subtopic. Thank you.
237 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
It's. Okay. Okay.